I'm not go ahead hmm try that point you
already wondering
thick accent we're going to keep me
awake talking about text so maybe that
will change your mind text on Mac OS
actually I prefer this one real sex on
necklace so welcome to session 155 real
text on record we'll be talking today
about the technologies that will enable
you to handle unicode text on Mac OS 10
mac OS 9 next version of 9 and of course
carbon level will be talking of course
about advanced typography on the new
system will be talking to about MLK the
mutant enjoy texting Jonah all right
whatever platform you're developing for
Coco carbon or classic when I say
actually carbon I talk about carbon lib
and Mac OS dinner or rather you need to
handle text or most applications do
behind my mind to way to handle this
there is the hard way and there is the
easy way the hardware your application
is very fine control and very fine
tuning of the style where the police are
going to be positioned on the screen and
these are like you know the steps that
you have to Latinos follow in order to
handle text you have to do text input it
could be raking up a different settings
but like character set conversion if you
want to endure io select you know from
different encoding files that are coming
from the net to gsh further the coming
from windows text manipulation and text
layout we're ordering of the round six
you doing Latino boutique script text
and of course the rendering and there is
the easy way the easy way will be to use
like one of several texts packages and
the text packages will actually use one
of several layers well there let's see
the text edition that we have right now
for mac OS 10 and classic applications
so once again the different technologies
I'm going to be talking about are
available online carbon lip and os then
of course here again i will divide back
in to settings would be what i call the
pre unicode and i'm sure if you have
been using one of these technologies
text input where you could do it with
like you know the event record where you
get a key down or you could be using TSM
tech services manager if you need to
enter two bites
the character set to engine conversion
sorry has been used as been used by ki
see the text encoding converter I'm sure
you've heard about that tech
manipulation the script manager with
text layout and the rendering as your no
creo text and quick draw since 8.5 will
be introducing technologies so
developers can enter unicode easily
these technologies of course available
on the coast and text input if you want
to do unicode input there is only one
way and this is to install the gsm
handlers card just and conversion of
course you still have to use TC text
manipulation in order to do unicode line
breaks sorting for instance you use the
unicode utilities the text layout should
be using at three apple type services
for you Nicole imaging which is the only
way to do unicode layout correctly the
rendering quick draw and of course
moving towards Latino new technologies
corp which you're watching on 10 before
we go in details and we talk about each
of these technologies I like just to let
you know to get forgot about this one
sorry for the easy way the text packages
you'll be using text edit sure we heard
about this technology and of course for
unicode MLT the multilingual text engine
introduced on mac OS 9 a volleyball on
carbon lip and on 10 so before we talk
about these technologies like just to
make a quick reminder why unicode is
important unicode is an interest in
industry and internet sound or even
windows uses it and no unicode is not a
monopolar it's the only way to win the
new languages there is no more room in
worse scrapes to handle more languages
unicode is the solution if you want to
enter the new extension for a big five
points and hong kong extension handle
latino of extended character sets for
Roman or Latino access the new trees
that have been defying the gsx 213
standard the only way to do that is to
use actually and to encode you the
documents in unicode i'll give you a
quick example right now for the
characters are just appear this car
shows a part of extended Roman character
set
right now if you click your text the
only way to render these characters use
five different encoding but means if
your applications want to burn in
Hungary you need to fight like you know
a different sound than the one that is
sitting on the US system but means to
support its characters need five
different phones with Unicode only one
front and i'll show you back in the demo
is sufficient and the phone tech Geneva
for instance is already set up for that
before we go to the demo I'd like to
introduce Deborah Goldsmith who will be
talking about the different drug
technologies there is a manager of
international toolbox which owns the
three technology thanks actually so
Dhabi I talked a little bit about the
system components that an application
can use to support Unicode and I'd like
to talk about those in a little bit more
detail to put them in context here's a
diagram of the flow of data in a Unicode
application first of all you have
information coming into the program
either coming from the network or disk
possibly the internet if it's in a
legacy encoding you need to use P ec to
convert it into unicode if it's coming
from the keyboard or some other input
device use TSM the text services manager
to process the input and make it
available to the application after your
application has done its processing use
up to e apple type services for unicode
imaging to lay out and prepare the text
for display and then finally you can use
quick draw or courts on mac OS 10 to
display the characters now i'm going to
talk about each of the technologies in a
little bit more detail first of all the
text services manager which has been in
Mac OS for quite a while since 71 at
least I think it was their first for
support of asian languages but over time
it's been taking on more and more
functions right now it is the only way
to receive unicode input and you
application so it's necessary if you
want to get unicode directly from input
sources as i already mentioned it
supports input of asian languages that
require input methods but it also
supports other kinds of tech services
examples include spelling checkers
hyphenation and even speech recognition
and starting in mac OS 8.5 TSM added
support for one byte languages as well
as the double by asian script new with
mac OS 10 in carbon law TSM now supports
the carbon event model so you can
continue to receive input from TSM using
apple events as you have in the past or
you can now use the carbon event model
instead and TSM also takes care of
matching up Unicode and non-unicode
applications with Unicode and
non-unicode input sources so your
application doesn't have to worry about
whether a particular keyboard or input
method produces Unicode or legacy
character set outputs TSM will take care
of converting it for you into the form
you need the text encoding converter is
another important component there's a
problem the internet the mac OS and
windows all use different character sets
and not only that each of them has many
many different character sets all of
these character sets are different and
encode characters in a different way and
if you just try to use data that's in
one character set and assume it's a
different character set you're going to
get garbage the solution is the text
encoding converter which has been
available in mac OS and say point one TC
will convert between many different
character sets and Unicode as well we've
spent a great deal of time working on
Tec in order to make sure that when it's
converting from one character set to
another that it preserves as much of
your data as it possibly can and if
there isn't an exact match between two
different character sets p ec will try
to find the best possible representation
and we think it has the best conversion
accuracy in the computer industry Tec
seems to have been very popular it's
used by many different applications
including Microsoft Office Internet
Explorer and outlook express Eudora
power mail and many more the Unicode
utilities were new in mac OS 8.6 and
were extended in mac OS 9 they're
equivalent to the international text
utilities and the script manager which
has been in the mac OS for a long time
but there the equivalent versions for
Unicode text they support operations
like collation namely comparison and
ordering or sorting of text in human
languages they support text breaking
finding boundaries between texts units
like words lines or even clusters of
characters in addition they provide
access to information about characters
such as whether they're left to right or
right to left or upper or lower case and
these come from the unicode 3 point out
character properties database and
finally unlike the script manager in
international utilities which use the
model of a script code and a region code
which are unique to the Macintosh the
Unicode utilities use a new locale model
which is very similar to the way that
java and unix systems handle
international processing actually your
apple type services for unicode imaging
is our solution for drawing unicode text
it was introduced in mac OS 8.5 and
we've been extending it and improving it
with each new release and we continue to
do that actually is the only solution on
the mac OS for direct imaging of unicode
that is handling all of the unicode
standards not just small pieces of it it
provides a larger character and language
repertoire covering new languages that
you can't do any other way plus parts of
existing languages that are hard to get
to using quick draw so the example you
see on the screen has tied Vietnamese
Greek
and a few other characters I'll describe
in a moment the first part of the
example is all from the lucid a font
that's part of Mac OS 10 that's all in
one font handling a Vietnamese and Greek
as well as Roman of course the
characters at the end our characters
that are in The Times font which has
been shipping on the Mac OS for many
years but those characters can't be
gotten to through quick draw their
characters that are in Unicode and in
the windows character set but not in the
Mac character set so even though they're
in the font there's no way to get to
them many times I get emails from people
using Windows systems and they have
characters like this in them and it's
not possible to display them except now
with Unicode and actually actually also
supports the full Unicode bi-directional
model which is very complicated
supporting languages like Hebrew and
Arabic and four languages like Arabic
and indic languages like devanagari
actually supports complex rendering of
text actually has other features besides
access to more languages for example for
Asian text in quick draw double by text
is required to have all the same width
for every character so every kanji
Arcana in Japanese for example has to be
the exact same with with absolutely you
can have proportional double by text
different glyphs can be different widths
in addition actually supports something
we've had many requests for from our age
and developers namely vertical text the
same features of XV which support
complex scripts like Arabic or tie or
devanagari also support advanced
typography for Roman languages so you
can get advanced typographic effects so
we haven't been sitting still with us
we've been adding new features and new
for Mac OS 10 our API for accessing the
outlines of glyphs and glyph metrics and
this is specifically meant for
applications that have used ATM to do
this in the past
since ATM is not available on Mac OS 10
in the future we plan to do much more to
actually we're working on it very
actively the first thing we're going to
do is lessen its reliance on Apple
layout tables so right now to do the
advanced type of graphic effects or
certain kinds of language support you
have to have apple advanced typography
tables and your font we're going to
continue to support those because we
think they handle those functions very
well but we want to make actually work
better with more different kinds of
funds so the first thing we're going to
do is make it able to do advanced layout
and language support using fonts that
have no layout tables at all because
that's what most of the funds out there
have no layout tables at all in addition
there are more and more opentype fonts
coming on to the market and we want to
support those as well and take advantage
of the layout tables and those fonts so
that's something we're going to be
working on for future versions of
absolutely also in addition there are
many developers such as those working on
high-end page layout applications who
need very fine control over the layout
process and the positioning of the
glyphs in their applications and we are
going to be adding a low level layout
API to absolutely which will give those
developers the control they need and
those are all coming in future releases
and weren't working on them right now so
now I'm going to turn the stage back
over to za PA so he can talk about the
multilingual text engine thank you there
you are thanks a lot all right
the mechanical text angina so as they
were described this is how your unica
deprecation will look right now if you
are to use these technologies what MIT
is going to do for you is going to try
to shield you from the complexity of
dealing with like you know all these
technologies it's a unicode text engine
and let's see what is exactly energy
energy the replacement for texted it and
that's important so that it's a
replacement for text that it I said it
twice a complete unicode text back edge
and when I second technical text package
because we do unicorn put unicode layout
and unique display we don't lose
information during the process of
rendering the text from the input to the
rendering it's easy to adapt and we have
simple code actually for like you know
proving that and i encourage you we have
like some documentation slide to show
like to see like you know the network's
project that we have it's one set of CP
eyes and supported on three different
environments on my quest and of course
nine and carbon liver but ten nine and
carbon liebe so that means you can come
back go back to nigeria and start aquino
checking out the demo but we are you can
start coding online just to find out if
actually this is correct this is a good
technology for your application and one
you use vp is the same API is are going
to work on carbon lib and then on ten
transparency okay
getting confused it's written in English
provide my elect invite on stage John
Harry Joyner is vertically the forum LT
been working on a Mickey for a couple of
years now and we show you exactly what
MIT can do for you from a graphical
point of view and from a legal point of
view all right so this is DP for with
couple of an instant this application is
apollyon you'll find it in the system
demo folder it's using right now click
dro rendering an s3 for like Virginia
Code layout here when you create a new
document what's happening that you get
this default window okay at that point
MLP created with one call the handlers
of a drag and drop the Hendra for TSM
for your application can enter two by
Scripps so now you have to spend time in
studying the TSM handlers we get them
fired by default the scroll bar we
handle like you know active scoring as
well so this is important to notice this
is one code txn new object and there's
going to do all these things for you all
right so there's my little cheat sheet
here a big difference we've like what
you used to for instance if you simple
text or like the creature quick cortex
that here the Fox menu is organized by
phone family and here for instance an
instance i create korea is like both
volatile okocha different representation
of this form so here the font menu is
created automatically by MLT it's once
again one API you pass the menu handle
and we're gonna build up the
hierarchical font menu for you something
new if you that Sue is that phones now
have like we're more information so not
only you know the Unicode information
with their as well advanced typographic
features and you have to set of features
you have first ones that are represented
here and your phone variations so here
fault XP are for instance as like
different representation for like the
glyphs this representation are
formulated by the phone designer the
phone designer decided well I'm going to
do an instant of a skia phone that's
going to be represented light or
extended or bold
super bored so here once again at that
point your application calls one API and
MNT the text engine is going to handle
for you what the current selection
change change vertex do the reflow free
flow is needed we do the brake line
let's see now why did I code is
important and by disorder when you're
going to use the MLT you get like all
rights we support and all the unicode
support so here we have a vietnamese
phylum diciendo misfire is included in
munich odom in this case it access a lot
of the characters are in textedit
drummond character set this file cannot
be rendered with quick Joe Tex for the
very simple reason that most of this
character cannot be included if you use
a mac OS room and character set so for
instance on the right of the screen we
have like simple texture here we're
going to try to drag and drop part of
the text to simple text and what could
we see at that point so first what
happened in your application you gotta
click you send the click event to TX and
click at that point nht is going to
enter the race we're going to find out
it's a drag and drop we're going to
explore different flavors to the drag
manager for the drag manager and over
application can understand it and in
this case what we did is that we
exported from unicode and blood three
style to something that simple tests can
understand which is mac OS Roman texts
proof that information and here we can
see that you know during the transition
will CC of code as good TC reason you
cannot render a certain character so you
can see for instance on the second line
n a TC has been sufficiently clever to
find out that in fact it could decompose
the Unicode character in to mac OS Roman
characters but then of course after the
M you can see that this glyph doesn't
exist and cannot be rendered with credo
text so we place it here with a question
mark so what's the source here that
we're using this is busy diagram there
from that using a mac OS 10 and this
boat has like you know all the extended
character sets for ramen plus many other
glyphs on and we can
/ during the Q&A if you want after so we
access the romantic extended character
set which is good but one thing
important for customers to in of Japan
market is like all these extensions to
for instance big thigh and the new geez
x2 13 have been talking about using
Unicode and using at three and of course
when you the mid kids transparent for
you give you access to this nigg lifson
and here for instance them the three
first maguro the first three lines are
can be rendered with osaka dos equis
aunt has this clip but we can see that
the beliefs after cannot be rendered
they're just not present in osaka zone
and here the thought is oregano which is
a new font introduced on the kurdistan
and this is the only way you can access
this form there is no other way to do
that
so it didn't talk about the last two
lines actually the last two lines of
variance of the glyphs represent data in
the gsx 2113 standard and the way to
access the place actually is that it's
just buy some variations and I'll show
you why violations are so important
features are so important when you
distend when you lay out sex down so
when using Mickey you can access all the
power of h3 and all the power of using
Unicode imaging but a nice thing to in
using these technologies are the
advanced echo graphic features and it is
just the wave a text is rendered right
now if you go in simple text you take a
contact chancery change the size make it
a little bit bigger and you type some
text this is how it's going to look okay
so this is the default behavior and you
know you tap the are this is the default
or everybody is going to get the same
glyph if you copy this text and now we
put it in shop volume then you get a
nice long squash on the r to the e you
get the key know when you get your goes
back to the AVL at the end line / and
this is the default that you get but
then because we do like you know the
layout and Atsui processes with texture
you get this behavior and I think the
text is rendered like you know pretty
nicely so we can change the size make it
bigger smaller of course and you can go
Adam in that's nice
[Applause]
alright so here on the toilet on the
riser you get the usual style so you can
select X type some text and as I said
now when you're going to be using a
messy and because we're using at three
we can access all this advanced
typography features things that before
you could an excess just because we
didn't have the api's and that we do
text is too limited to do so so here we
take like you know we type some text you
can see that during the time a drum is
typing the text is changing because for
instance here the earth is going to
change the ligature on the eight is
going to move lizard which means the
eggs in French are you see the earth
changing if you know a little bit of
French you know but earth is not written
like that in fact there is a distance
between the oh and Zoey so how you going
to do that so as I said on each phone
but Apple has been shipping in the last
I don't know many years as a setting of
teacher so here what's happening is that
shop or you get the current direction
from MLT and as to the phone give me the
list of all the features that you have
and here we are so we have a bunch of
topographic features dedicate diacritics
vertical position fraction ornaments all
these themes of studying the salt so
here for instance we can turn on the
gift on and hope the letter changes the
text is the same we didn't change what
store of sex it's just the way the
layout is processed now we have a
distant set up so I'd sweet very clever
to know that the owner yes to be
combined so we have of course texting
but our liking us washes rarely get root
and you can see the nice compartment the
s going from to the to the e this is if
you'd imagine you application are going
to be able to render text like never
have been able to do before and it's
like you know you have all the power of
Unicode you're going to be able to
access the two by Scripps voice focusing
on how difficult it is to handle this
and you're going to be accessing all
this feature so another nice feature
that we have
it sounds like is Kia for instance has
been shipping for several years now as
like violations inside so if we type
some text on and we bring back the
typographic features shop for you is
going to be asking to the phone to the
skiers on give me all the by actions
that are storing in the phone and here
at that point if we click on variations
we have features as well so here just a
click on the letter K as we change
everything to cut and what is important
here is that the text didn't change is
just the rendering okay if we select
this text and put it in simple text for
instance you still have the original
text in the keynote small cups and the
variation so here he has to type of
variations wait and wait and you can see
that you know just in real time you can
change the way the text is gonna flow
you can change the way and you can
change the width on so it's kind of
important for like you know if doing
like you know layout document formatting
it's very nice it's like you know your
kid what to create some relax and lex
pliers you know things for like it's
cool you can do a couple of bunch of
things
so where you get your play with it you
know it's in the system demo shop for
you you can play you can try with the
phones by a bunch of phones that are
shipping with my question DP for and
play with it to see you have different
compartments I mean I think it's going
to give you an idea of like watch the
technology is about and how you can
implement that is new application all
right so ma ki gives you access to
unicode gives you access to advanced
topographic features but as i said to
it's a replacement for text edit and
people have been asking of course for
like many features to add to texted it
in this case most of these things are in
shop alone so one important thing is
invalid objects MLT support embedded
objects and it's transparent and if you
have been creating simple text files
with misfiled and you want it to put a
pictures you know annoying it is to
create the resource-based 10,000 and put
the embedded characters here in the data
for call the texture and then of course
if you want to satisfy to Japan you have
to change it because what's happening is
that the see a character is the first
bite of the to buy character so you have
to change everything again here with one
format when you're going to save energy
you get pictures sound movies text unico
text the features the ligature or the
phone valuation and here we just have a
movie and we can play you can ship back
to your customer so with a new releases
wedding like two types for saving this
movies which i think you give interested
because if the movie is 50 megabyte well
if you flatten the movie to the disk
when you save your file you're going to
get like a file of 50 megs on so a new
way to do that is back you know to just
set up the reference and that's nice
because you can be creating your
document you could ship it to your
customer and inside you could put a
movie that is in fact somewhere on your
network so it could be just going like
on the internet and aquino loading the
file and screaming it so we can see you
can save that in your document you can
type texts of course here if we open a
picture
we get a big picture we let's try to get
that you know just a piece of it so
we're going to copy that so here
applications and owning it you passed it
in the documents at that point once
again one curl txn pays the x10 place is
going to check what's in the current
scrub board if it's the picture we're
going to handle it for you if it's a
movie we'll test it if it's takes them
with sky resource when you know like you
know the West Central Texas think we're
going to pass this in the document it's
one call for you and here at that point
drag and drop something you get a click
in your application you pass the click
to the checks and object and we're gonna
endure if you are scrolling if the click
is in the scroll bar we're going to
enter it to the beginning of the drag
and drop so I think it's pretty powerful
before we go to the next in my first
slide or maybe the second side I was
saying that you know what technologies
on 10 are moving forward and now we're
trying to implement and using of course
like you know all the power of Mac OS 10
and what one of the very nice features
of micro strain of course is squats
rendering so what I'm going to show you
is just something or working on a case
not finished but here we're going to be
using an LT and when we release this
will be using by default quads and your
application will see nothing it's just
like sitting attack and you'd be
switching from quick George Cross
rendering so here we have a document
with a special version of shop early on
and here we can see we can change the
key no this is only like you know quad
rendering so like what's happening at
that point is like you know with
triggering a CD context and here we just
changing the way the shadow is going to
look so we can change the right hands
like you know for a shadow we can change
the K which is like the coefficient for
the transparency of the shadow so here
at school we cannot see it so let's
trying to change the height so here we
change the height you can see the shadow
getting away at that point fitting these
kind of features is the standard setting
of variation it's just once that it's
like another strategy which working on
you can change the angle so look at that
you love angle can we change the
coefficient for like the relations
like darker and here we can move the
shadowrun the texture we can put it like
you know far away and here of course if
you type texture you can just type and
that's it we're reducing quad at that
point you get all the night shadow in
the next leg behind that so this is
coming soon that's fine thank you
alright thanks let me go back to my
slides now so once again check it out
the version that is in vp for system
demoed the application is called Jean
polio I think the movie supports not
enabled in this specific release but you
know it's just coming soon you can play
with the phones check out see our text
entries where earth float x is there you
have a bunch of features you can play
with that what can I make it do for you
so msg is going to be ending the unicode
input redditing on the display as a
complete package so for instance if you
want to do like you know to bite input
you're not going to insult gsm enter
once again this is created automatically
when you create a new TX an object an
MLG object it addresses many text edit
limitations and other slides on the
feature to show you actually like you
know a set of features that we support
it enters the low-level my address
transparently so once again same thing
when you create a GX a new object we're
going to install the dragon blur we're
going to install the scroller if you
want to original score boys just as a
flag that you pass to the object you
want the vertical scroll bar it's
another flag oh this thing is going very
fast for me which makes adoption very
easy and we have sample code once again
to show you that it provides easy access
to as to advance topographic features
sitting at sweta programming features
with an LG it's just a matter of setting
a stylus abuse it's like setting balls
like setting italic all right let's see
what every feature
last year when I did actually if I
talked to a couple of developers and
every time you ask them what is the
feature that you really need it in a
text and giant what if you work to
change something yes do 42 killing it I
think this is on a timer sorry about
that so if you asked to develop I would
say that you know no 32k limit and
energy of course handles more than 32 k
text so you don't have to worry about
that the size limitation is only limited
to the memory of your application so
this is great tabulation support you can
now set to start setting for document so
you know note icon texted it when you
press tab well when you press tab we're
gonna have a real tabulation you're not
going to space so I'm going to like you
know go fast embedded objects with
report picture sounds and movies and
once again the way to set that is just a
matter of like you know one API a handle
on the data Wow the handle on the data
and that's it you said we keep our own
do switch report 32 levels of undo and
widows once again just a matter of
simple API txn undo GX and we do we
support setting for fuji specification
support it's one sitting for document
well getting pretty button workin sure
if i have time weak links calling as i
showed in the demo the printing and the
clipboard support is done for you we
have api's to handle button and if you
moving to carbon and 210 for instance
you know that you know you have to
revise the printing and here with you if
you use a milky that would be handled
transparently the i/o we introduced a
new file format txt mm which is the file
format that's going to save that will be
safe to be different let's go to support
the embedded objects that you will have
in your document the Unicode text and
all the h3 style attributes so the
features of violations and all these
things but you can still save of course
if you desire if you want to do so a
plain unicode file and will do it
automatically for you jegs and save you
pass a net expect and a flag with the
type what you want to save to and which
report of course the simple text format
so when used a mail key you can see the
export data so simple text appleworks
microsoft word can understand
there are two ways to use energy and the
first one is like for text editing
you'll be using it for level most texted
each field of Molly deter and the second
way and we've been adding that because
last year we talk to developers and
there is one sick the one seed is static
display of unicode sex they want one API
where we're going to be able to pass a
Unicode string and maybe some parameters
erect and that state and is going to be
displayed and this is VI to use in this
case and I talked about that my next
slide we have one API now it takes two
flavors if you're working on car beneath
them you can pass a sphere string or if
you're working online you can still pass
that you know a unique a pointer and a
length there and it takes many options
by default you just need to pass the
text and the rectangle but if you want
you can pass many more and I'll show you
that in the next slide the text editing
videos for sno tek de tareas on texting
it does a lot of things for you with
very few calls it report all that sweet
style and tags and this is important if
you see the earth my garden and this is
important because i still give you
access to like you know a range of new
style and features but you know you
couldn't access before so energy with
one simple API is going to give you
access to all these things it's easy to
state and retrieve line word characters
from the document once again now you can
call an API and get a king of the fifth
word on the second line just that it
takes care of in line text input the
layout and the rendering once again when
you initialize the text and shine we're
going to install a bunch of Hendra for
you and we're going to try to make your
life really easy so you can focus on
what your application is supposed to do
and not the way we should handle text
msg is going to handle that for you the
tactic before Amenti just as a quick
example if you wanted to ender to bite
script before you install my god you
have to institute gsm hendra then if you
want it to a support drag-and-drop you
have to insert the dragons or if you
wanted to create scoreboard you have to
install the scoreboard yourself manager
internal crap and of course Latino
manager says the IO
this is something like 212 lines of code
and we have a simple code to show you
that and this hinders only basic
scrolling basic internal scrub
management and very limited 70 panel
with the MLT now six lines of code and I
swear you have to check it out it's very
easy you can compare the two files and
find out that you know one code is going
to do so much compared with what you
have to do before we started it one code
which checks any object is going to
handle all the dragon's lair all right
all the dragon's lair and all the things
window genican input to manage the scrap
we have to use to AP is the exit convert
from publix crap and we're going to take
whatever is on the physics Club
converted something that your
application and in HD can understand and
convert to public scrubs is going to
take whatever is our internal scrub
board of MLT to go to fix weapon this is
very cool Jackson save and open same
thing you person s a spec Cyrus and
Aikido of file type so we're going to
find out and we're going to be able to
open you txt file simple text files
plain unicode files or txt and files and
at that point just a matter of calling
one API the static text display so
people have been asking for that and the
ex and Rowena code text box is a
solution if you want to display mono
style unicode texture by default the
only parameters you have to pass are the
text or length or CF string depending on
what you do ooh which is better so the
text a rectangle to do the word wrap and
if you want you can pass like you know a
bunch of flags in the option structure
which are we gonna in the vertical text
rotation plushness if you want to
justify the texture and if you'd like
you can pass your own at freestyle you
don't have to if you don't want we'll
take whatever is in the queue and grasp
or convert the font the font size and
the style attribute to something that
that's we can understand ok my
conclusion slide very difficult think
different and unique ID is going more
important and I think we're the right
technology is now for you to use and to
implement easily in Europe
gation if you have very specific needs
and you need fine control or whether
bleach should be displayed use a tree at
least the solution it's the only way to
display unicode text correctly if you
want to return something little bit
easier actuation swearinger MLT is the
solution MLT is like the text package is
going to do so much for you is going to
shoot you from like adding to deal with
the complexity of a toolbox for the
scrolling with the complexity of GSM
finding to write scripts and Unicode
input once again since unicode this is
the only way where things are going it's
not only a platform it's windows it's
the internet download now and your
application at one point is enough to
get with unicode so think about our
technologies carbon leave nine and ten
the same set of api is going to be
working pink MLT MLT is great with
simple code and show you but in the
documentation switching from text edit
implementation to MIT is going to reduce
the number of lines in your car mlc is
going to do like many things but you had
to end up by yourself before so it's a
nice way to transition to go to carbon
nib and move forward to dinner before we
go to the 2 i'd like to show you just
where you can find more information on
the developer.apple.com in the text
additional services we have a list of
like the current technologies so you'll
find info on specific topics like gsm
you should like at three MLT TCO text
encoding converter there is an energy
sdk of the labor i don't know if it's
already on the net if it's on the on
apple website i saw it last week where
the kitchen on sunday and it's great
there are latino carbon examples by
examples of like how to use MLT how to
create the font menu how to use TX a new
object how to endure the events even if
using carbon event it very nice it is
well documented on the road map so
yesterday you hope you did go to the
carnival valor if you didn't very still
like you know i think some refresh some
people are going up some slides after
that mac OS x on management this is the
right place to find out about how
the question for management is going to
be going they'll be talking about the
photo objects API how to access probably
like you know the front tables and all
these things it's pretty nice quarter
quarks will be exposing some of the
api's but now you can use on 10 what is
the way to go it's a very nice rendering
in giant or technologies will be using
it if you need more internal please go
there advanced printing once again if
you move to walk then you know that the
printer architecture is changing of
course if you use energy that will be
transparent for you but if you need to
do your own printing please go to
availability of information important
session 9 12 it is a feedback forum for
text and international we have a bunch
of Engineers where come by we can talk
near those actual specific crimes
implementation request it's always good
to a feedback on the technologies
working on talking about feedback will
have I think some balloons in the hole
for lunch the International lunch will
have like two different tables I think
one for phones one for text and 143
please come by if you have like you know
once again if you want more information
of specific requests or it's like a good
way to talk to the engineers that are
working on the technologies we have a
bunch of people there all right hope you
like this of course we have some Q&A